scripts/ouranos-espo-g6-r2/README.md, before:

# Ouranos `ESPO-G6-R2 v1.0.0` dataset
In this file, the details of the dataset is explained.

## Location of Dataset Files
The `ESPO-G6-R2 v1.0.0` dataset is located under the following directory accessible from Compute Canada (CC) Graham Cluster:
```console
/project/rpp-kshook/Climate_Forcing_Data/meteorological-data/ouranos-espo-g6-r2 # rpp-kshook allocation
/project/rrg-mclark/data/meteorological-data/ouranos-espo-g6-r2 # rrg-mclark allocation
```

and the structure of the dataset hourly files is as following:
```console
/project/rrg-mclark/data/meteorological-data/ouranos-espo-g6-r2
├── AS-RCEC
│   └── TaiESM1 
│       ├── ssp245 
|       |   └── r1i1p1f1
│       |       └── day
|       |           ├── pr
│       |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
|       |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
|       |           |   └── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-210031231.nc
│       |           ├── tasmax
|       |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
|       |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
|       |           |   └── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-21001231.nc
|       |           └── tasmin
|       |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
|       |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
|       |               ├── .
|       |               ├── .
|       |               ├── .
|       |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
|       |               └── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-21001231.nc
│       └── ssp370
|           └── r1i1p1f1
│               └── day
|                   ├── pr
│                   |   ├── . 
│                   |   ├── . 
│                   |   └── . 
|                   ├── tasmax
│                   |   ├── . 
│                   |   ├── . 
│                   |   └── . 
|                   tasmin
│                       ├── . 
│                       ├── . 
│                       └── . 
│
.
.
.
├── %{model}
|   ├── %{submodel} # no need for explicit declaration in the scripts 
|   |   ├── %{scenario}
|   |   |   └── %{ensemble}
|   |   |       └── day
|   |   |           ├── %{var}
|   |   |           |   ├── %{var}_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_%{model}_%{submodel}_%{scenario}_%{ensemble}_%{year}0101_%{year+3}1231.nc
|   |   |           |   ├── . 
|   |   |           |   ├── . 
|   |   |           |   ├── . 
|   |   |           |   └── %{var}_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_%{model}_%{submodel}_%{scenario}_%{ensemble}_%{year}0101_%{year+2}1231.nc
.   .   .           .
.   .   .           .
.   .   .           .
└── NUIST
    └── NESM3
        ├── ssp245 
        |   └── r1i1p1f1
        |       └── day
        |           ├── pr
        |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
        |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
        |           |   └── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-210031231.nc
        |           ├── tasmax
        |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
        |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
        |           |   └── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-21001231.nc
        |           └── tasmin
        |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
        |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
        |               ├── .
        |               ├── .
        |               ├── .
        |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
        |               └── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-21001231.nc
        └── ssp370
            └── r1i1p1f1
                └── day
                    ├── pr
                    |   ├── . 
                    |   ├── . 
                    |   └── . 
                    ├── tasmax
                    |   ├── . 
                    |   ├── . 
                    |   └── . 
                    tasmin
                        ├── . 
                        ├── . 
                        └── . 
```

## Coordinate Variables and Time-stamps

### Coordinate Variables
The coordinate variables of the `ESPO-G6-R2 v1.0.0` simulations are `rlon` and `rlat` representing the longitude and latitude points, respectively.
### Time-stamps
The time-stamps are included in the original files.

## Dataset Variables
The NetCDF files of the dataset contain one variable per file. You may see a list of variables by browsing the dataset files:
```console
foo@bar:~$ ls /project/rrg-mclark/data/meteorological-data/ouranos-espo-g6-r2/ESPO-G6-R2v1.0.0/AS-RCEC/TaiESM1/ssp245/r1i1p1f1/day
```

## Spatial Extent
The spatial extent of the `ESPO-G6-R2 v1.0.0` is on latitutes from `+5.75` to `+83.98` and longitudes from `-179.9925` to `179.9728` covering North America. The resolution is 0.09 degrees (~10km). 

## Temporal Extent
The time-stamps are already included in the original files. The dataset offers
**daily** time-series of climate variables. The following table
describes the temporal extent for senarios included in this dataset:
|#  |Scenarios (keyword for `--scenario`) |Temporal extent             |
|---|-------------------------------------|----------------------------|
|1  |`ssp245`                             |`2015-01-01` to `2100-12-31`|
|2  |`ssp370`                             |`2015-01-01` to `2100-12-31`|
|3  |`ssp585`                             |`2015-01-01` to `2100-12-31`|


## Short Description on `ESPO-G6-R2 v1.0.0` Variables
This dataset only offers three climate variables: 1) daily precipitation
time-series (surface level), 2) daily minimum temperature time-series
(@2m, near-surface level), and 3) daily maximum temperature time-series
(@2m, near-surface level). Since the frequency of this dataset is daily,
and only offers precipitation and temperature values, therefore, it could
be potentially used for forcing conceptual hydrological models that only
need daily time-series of these variables.

The table below, summarizes the variables offered by this dataset:
|Variable Name         |Variable (keyword for `--variable`)|Unit      |IPCC Abbreviation|Comments              |
|----------------------|-----------------------------------|----------|-----------------|----------------------|
|maximum temperature   |`tasmax`                           |K         |tasmax           |near-surface 2m height|
|minimum temperature   |`tasmin`                           |K         |tasmin           |near-surface 2m height|
|preciptiation         |`pr`                               |kg m-2 s-1|pr               |surface level         |

Commit message:

Iss44 (#46)
* Adding ensemble members information

This commit provides necessary information on the ensemble members of
each climate model available in the dataset. The information could be
provided to the `--ensemble=` argument of the main caller script.

Signed-off-by: Kasra Keshavarz <kasra.keshavarz1@ucalgary.ca>

* Bumping version

* Adding ensemble member information for NASA-NEX-GDDP-CMIP6 dataset

The necessary information to be provided to the `--ensemble=` argument
in the main caller script for this dataset is provided.

Signed-off-by: Kasra Keshavarz <kasra.keshavarz1@ucalgary.ca>

---------

Signed-off-by: Kasra Keshavarz <kasra.keshavarz1@ucalgary.ca>

scripts/ouranos-espo-g6-r2/README.md, after:

# Ouranos `ESPO-G6-R2 v1.0.0` dataset
In this file, the details of the dataset is explained.

## Location of Dataset Files
The `ESPO-G6-R2 v1.0.0` dataset is located under the following directory accessible from Compute Canada (CC) Graham Cluster:
```console
/project/rpp-kshook/Climate_Forcing_Data/meteorological-data/ouranos-espo-g6-r2 # rpp-kshook allocation
/project/rrg-mclark/data/meteorological-data/ouranos-espo-g6-r2 # rrg-mclark allocation
```

and the structure of the dataset hourly files is as following:
```console
/project/rrg-mclark/data/meteorological-data/ouranos-espo-g6-r2
├── AS-RCEC
│   └── TaiESM1 
│       ├── ssp245 
|       |   └── r1i1p1f1
│       |       └── day
|       |           ├── pr
│       |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
|       |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
|       |           |   └── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-210031231.nc
│       |           ├── tasmax
|       |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
|       |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── . 
|       |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
|       |           |   └── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-21001231.nc
|       |           └── tasmin
|       |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
|       |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
|       |               ├── .
|       |               ├── .
|       |               ├── .
|       |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
|       |               └── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_AS-RCEC_TaiESM1_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-21001231.nc
│       └── ssp370
|           └── r1i1p1f1
│               └── day
|                   ├── pr
│                   |   ├── . 
│                   |   ├── . 
│                   |   └── . 
|                   ├── tasmax
│                   |   ├── . 
│                   |   ├── . 
│                   |   └── . 
|                   tasmin
│                       ├── . 
│                       ├── . 
│                       └── . 
│
.
.
.
├── %{model}
|   ├── %{submodel} # no need for explicit declaration in the scripts 
|   |   ├── %{scenario}
|   |   |   └── %{ensemble}
|   |   |       └── day
|   |   |           ├── %{var}
|   |   |           |   ├── %{var}_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_%{model}_%{submodel}_%{scenario}_%{ensemble}_%{year}0101_%{year+3}1231.nc
|   |   |           |   ├── . 
|   |   |           |   ├── . 
|   |   |           |   ├── . 
|   |   |           |   └── %{var}_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_%{model}_%{submodel}_%{scenario}_%{ensemble}_%{year}0101_%{year+2}1231.nc
.   .   .           .
.   .   .           .
.   .   .           .
└── NUIST
    └── NESM3
        ├── ssp245 
        |   └── r1i1p1f1
        |       └── day
        |           ├── pr
        |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
        |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
        |           |   └── pr_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-210031231.nc
        |           ├── tasmax
        |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
        |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── . 
        |           |   ├── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
        |           |   └── tasmax_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-21001231.nc
        |           └── tasmin
        |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19500101-19531231.nc
        |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_19540101-19571231.nc
        |               ├── .
        |               ├── .
        |               ├── .
        |               ├── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20940101-20971231.nc
        |               └── tasmin_day_ESPO-G6-R2_v1.0.0_CMIP6_ScenarioMIP_NAM_NUIST_NESM3_ssp245_r1i1p1f1_20980101-21001231.nc
        └── ssp370
            └── r1i1p1f1
                └── day
                    ├── pr
                    |   ├── . 
                    |   ├── . 
                    |   └── . 
                    ├── tasmax
                    |   ├── . 
                    |   ├── . 
                    |   └── . 
                    tasmin
                        ├── . 
                        ├── . 
                        └── . 
```

## Coordinate Variables and Time-stamps

### Coordinate Variables
The coordinate variables of the `ESPO-G6-R2 v1.0.0` simulations are `rlon` and `rlat` representing the longitude and latitude points, respectively.
### Time-stamps
The time-stamps are included in the original files.

## Dataset Variables
The NetCDF files of the dataset contain one variable per file. You may see a list of variables by browsing the dataset files:
```console
foo@bar:~$ ls /project/rrg-mclark/data/meteorological-data/ouranos-espo-g6-r2/ESPO-G6-R2v1.0.0/AS-RCEC/TaiESM1/ssp245/r1i1p1f1/day
```

## Spatial Extent
The spatial extent of the `ESPO-G6-R2 v1.0.0` is on latitutes from `+5.75` to `+83.98` and longitudes from `-179.9925` to `179.9728` covering North America. The resolution is 0.09 degrees (~10km). 

## Temporal Extent
The time-stamps are already included in the original files. The dataset offers
**daily** time-series of climate variables. The following table
describes the temporal extent for senarios included in this dataset:
|#  |Scenarios (keyword for `--scenario`) |Temporal extent             |
|---|-------------------------------------|----------------------------|
|1  |`ssp245`                             |`2015-01-01` to `2100-12-31`|
|2  |`ssp370`                             |`2015-01-01` to `2100-12-31`|
|3  |`ssp585`                             |`2015-01-01` to `2100-12-31`|

## List of Ensemble Members
|#  |Models (keyword for `--model`)|Ensemble Members (keyword for `--ensemble`)|
|---|------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
|1  |`AS-RCEC`                     |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|2  |`BCC`                         |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|3  |`CAS`                         |`r1i1p1f1`                                 | 
|4  |`CCCma`                       |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|5  |`CMCC`                        |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|6  |`CNRM-CERFACS`                |`r1i1p1f2`                                 |
|7  |`CSIRO`                       |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|8  |`CSIRO-ARCCSS`                |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|9  |`DKRZ`                        |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|10 |`EC-Earth-Consortium`         |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|11 |`INM`                         |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|12 |`IPSL`                        |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|13 |`MIROC`                       |`r1i1p1f1`, `r1i1p1f2`                     |
|14 |`MOHC`                        |`r1i1p1f2`                                 |
|15 |`MPI-M`                       |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|16 |`MRI`                         |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|17 |`NCC`                         |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|18 |`NIMS-KMA`                    |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|19 |`NOAA-GFDL`                   |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |
|20 |`NUIST`                       |`r1i1p1f1`                                 |


## Short Description on `ESPO-G6-R2 v1.0.0` Variables
This dataset only offers three climate variables: 1) daily precipitation
time-series (surface level), 2) daily minimum temperature time-series
(@2m, near-surface level), and 3) daily maximum temperature time-series
(@2m, near-surface level). Since the frequency of this dataset is daily,
and only offers precipitation and temperature values, therefore, it could
be potentially used for forcing conceptual hydrological models that only
need daily time-series of these variables.

The table below, summarizes the variables offered by this dataset:
|Variable Name         |Variable (keyword for `--variable`)|Unit      |IPCC Abbreviation|Comments              |
|----------------------|-----------------------------------|----------|-----------------|----------------------|
|maximum temperature   |`tasmax`                           |K         |tasmax           |near-surface 2m height|
|minimum temperature   |`tasmin`                           |K         |tasmin           |near-surface 2m height|
|preciptiation         |`pr`                               |kg m-2 s-1|pr               |surface level         |
